## pp 1.2
- S = 1 / (1 - α + α/k)

- The marketing department at your company has promised your
customers that the next software release will show a 2×
performance improvement. 

- You have been assigned the task of
delivering on that promise.
- You have determined that only 80% of
the system can be improved.
- How much (i.e., what value of k)
would you need to improve this part to meet the overall
performance target?
- One interesting special case of Amdahl's law is to consider the effect of
setting k to ∞.
- That is, we are able to take some part of the system and
speed it up to the point at which it takes a negligible amount of time. We
then get
- So, for example, if we can speed up 60% of the system to the point
where it requires close to no time, our net speedup will still only be 1/0.4
= 2.5×.
- Amdahl's law describes a general principle for improving any process.
- Inaddition to its application to speeding up computer systems, it can guide
a company trying to reduce the cost of manufacturing razor blades, or a
student trying to improve his or her grade point average.
- Perhaps it is most meaningful in the world of computers, where we routinely improve
performance by factors of 2 or more.
- Such high factors can only be achieved by optimizing large parts of a system.

## Solution
- Amdahl's law is best understood by working through some examples.
- This one requires you to look at Equation 1.1 from an unusual
perspective.
- This problem is a simple application of the equation. You are given S = 2
and α = 0.8, and you must then solve for k:

Absolutely, let's use Amdahl's Law to calculate the value of k for a speedup (S) of 2 and a proportion of unimprovable part (α) of 0.8.

Here's the formula:

**S = 1 / (1 - α + α/k)**

We are given:

* S = 2 (speedup)
* α = 0.8 (proportion of unimprovable part)

We need to solve for k.

Steps to solve:

1. **Plug in the values**: Substitute S = 2 and α = 0.8 into the formula:

   **2 = 1 / (1 - 0.8 + 0.8/k)**

2. **Simplify the equation**: Multiply both sides by the denominator (1 - 0.8 + 0.8/k) to isolate S on the left side:

   **2 * (1 - 0.8 + 0.8/k) = 1**

   **2 - 1.6 + 1.6/k = 1**

3. **Solve for k**: Combine like terms on the left side, then manipulate the equation to get k by itself:

   **0.4 + 1.6/k = 1**

   **1.6/k = 1 - 0.4**

   **1.6/k = 0.6**

   **k = 1.6 / 0.6**

   **k = 2.666666666666667 (rounded to eight decimal places)**

Therefore, according to Amdahl's Law, to achieve a speedup of 2 when 80% of the system cannot be improved, you would need to improve the remaining 20% by a factor of approximately 2.67.



